
For future schema changes, you can run:
---------------------------------------
cd backend
alembic revision --autogenerate -m "description"   # Generate migration
alembic upgrade head                                 # Apply migration


------------------

cd /Users/cholan/MyProjects/ReactJS/mathi/ezyHR-PRP/backend
# e.g. uvicorn app.main:app --reload  (or whatever your usual start command is)

hrmanager@acme.com
Manager@123


Temporary Password

BCzIUz5xwmG9

www.zing5hr.com

www 
CNAME
9sviqw14.up.railway.app



TXT
_railway-verify.www
railway-verify=18dbd483414c1ef4d478a066c2dcbe3cd7c023bcf9e5ee3c51ea1d678c365354



www 
CNAME
ipm616t7.up.railway.app

TXT
_railway-verify.www
railway-verify=8a547822c4e53ccf5837984d19c963c9771bf0f6487b1f2fd446cab10f38b2b3



- a workmen going work for 9am to 6pm shift
- but he worked until next day 9am
- between this hours he falls Break (Mins) for lunch,dinner and break fast 
- in this how habdle 3 meal breaks 


The 

LeaveType
 model got a new is_active column — you'll need to run a DB migration (or restart with --reload if using SQLite auto-create) for the Leave Types CRUD to fully work in production.

What would you like to work on today? Some possible areas:

Leave Entitlements — configure how many days each employee gets per type per year
Employee Dashboard — let employees see their own leave balance & history
Payroll integration — connect leave data to payslip deductions
Something else entirely?



Standard leave request lifecycle
-HR / Entity Admin configures leave_types (AL, ML, HL, CL …) per entity.
-On employee onboarding, system calculates statutory annual leave (staircase) and grants it on Jan 1 or anniversary.
-Each year on 1 Jan: Celery task grants statutory annual leave for all employees based on their join_date.
-Employee applies for leave (status: pending)
-Manager reviews and approves/rejects
-If approved, leave is deducted from employee's balance
-If rejected, no deduction is made 
-leave_entitlements links to employment_id. 
-A person working at 2 entities gets 2 separate leave ledgers — one per job.



Phase 1 (Foundation)
  ├── statutory_leave_rules table + seed MOM data
  ├── leave_pools table (replace SICK/HOSP hardcode)
  └── Engine refactor to use DB rules
Phase 2 (Lifecycle Completion)
  ├── Jan 1 Celery/APScheduler task
  ├── carry_policies + carry-forward computation
  └── Auto-grant on onboarding
Phase 3 (Advanced)
  ├── family_links + SPL cross-person pool
  ├── GPPL/Paternity birth-date logic
  └── Admin UI for managing rules tables

postgresql://postgres:umxQArfdfdXkNTnECJDxQdUzuFQxmOlc@shortline.proxy.rlwy.net:11231/railway
shortline.proxy.rlwy.net

S1234567A

1. The "Apply for Leave" Experience (Employee Facing) 🏖️ You have a incredibly powerful compliance engine in the backend now. We can build a beautiful frontend "Apply for Leave" wizard for employees. This would include:

Selecting the leave type and date range.
Smart Calculation: Real-time calculation of "working days" consumed (automatically detecting and skipping weekends or public holidays).
File Upload: A drag-and-drop zone to attach Medical Certificates when applying for Sick/Hospitalisation leave.
2. Employee Directory & Detailed Profiles 🧑‍💼 We can build a modern "Employee Directory" grid/list view (sharing the sleek design language we just built for Master Data) and a detailed individual "Employee Profile" screen. This profile would cleanly display their Personal Data, Job History, Salary Details, Emergency Contacts, and real-time Leave Balances.

3. Settings: Company Profile & Defaults 🏢 Under Settings, we can build the "Company Profile" UI to let you upload a company logo, set the UEN/Address, and configure global defaults like standard Working Hours and Rest Days (which are critical for attendance and payroll).

4. Role & Permission Management 🔐 We have a robust custom roles and permissions architecture in the database. We could build an admin UI to visually toggle permissions (like VIEW_PAYROLL or APPROVE_LEAVE) for different custom roles, allowing you to easily set up Managers vs. HR Admins.

5. Payroll Run Dashboard 💰 If you want to shift focus to finances, we can build the UI that actually triggers a new monthly Payroll Run, dynamically calculating the CPF, SDL, and SHG deductions based on the employee data we've seeded, and displays the gross-to-net salary breakdown in a payslip




Self-Help Groups (SHG):
Status: Models and GET endpoints exist for CDAC, MBMF, SINDA, and ECF.
Pending: A CRUD UI to update the wage brackets and deduction amounts when they change.
Skills Development Levy (SDL):
Status: Model exists with the standard 0.25% rate and $2/$11.25 caps.
Pending: A UI to adjust these values if statutory requirements change in the future.
Public Holidays:
Status: A public_holidays table exists in the database.
Pending: A centralized dashboard to seed and manage holidays for each year (e.g., seeding 2024/2025/2026 holidays once for all tenants).
Foreign Worker Levy (FWL):
Status: Referenced in migrations but no active management router. This will eventually need a table for different sectors and pass types (Work Permit vs. S Pass).




My Technical Proposal for Payroll Generation:
YTD Accuracy (The "AW Ceiling" Fix): Singapore CPF has an annual Additional Wage (AW) ceiling ($102k - YTD OW). Currently, our engine assumes YTD is 0. I need to implement a YTD Tracking System to ensure high-earners are calculated correctly across multiple months.

Leave & OT Integration: Payroll shouldn't be manual. I'll update the PayrollService to automatically fetch:

Unpaid Leave: From the Leave module to deduct from basic pay.
OT Hours: From the Attendance/Roster module to calculate 1.5x/2.0x pay.
The "Output" Layer: Generation isn't just about math; it's about compliance files:

CPF91 Generator: Automatic generation of the file for CPF Board submission.
GIRO/FAST Generator: Bank file for bulk salary disbursement.
Interactive Payslips: A professional UI for employees to see their OA/SA/MA breakdown.
AI Audit Panel: Enhancing the "Process" flow so that HR Admins see an "Audit" report (Salary anomalies, compliance risks) before they "Approve & Lock" the payroll.

Does this "Generation & Compliance" roadmap look correct to you? If so, I'll start with the YTD tracking infrastructure.

